When we were talking you and I about politics a little, a little while ago,
you said something that I thought was very interesting,
which was that generally speaking, like the, um,
the funnier candidate will prevail when you're talking about something like
whatever theories, uh,
and then you suggested something really interesting to me, which was like, well,
you, which was like, you were thinking, maybe we should try. And, uh,
now the dynamic of this particular election is now completely changed.
Like in my opinion, Joe, you know, is, uh,
heavily favored in the polls now and we're in the midst of a crisis.
And so like the humor test, like at this point, everyone's like, screw that.
Like I'd rather just like a return to sanity. Um, but there was a,
uh, but I, there was a suggestion you had that I thought was really interesting.
You were like,
maybe we should get some comedy writers together to like write some, um,
some good scripts or lines for, uh, whoever the democratic nominee,
like a, you know, like, uh, like, uh, may end up being an, I mean,
obviously we're in a different moment now,
but I thought that there was something really powerful to like your, uh,
your general thinking on it. Um, which is that at this point,
politicians are communicators. Um,
and there's like certain language that they use to communicate, uh, you know,
that, uh, is hitting with certain groups of Americans,
like maybe less so for others, but I was part of these debates, uh,
Judd. And it was clear to me that,
that some of the candidates definitely had jokes that they'd rehearsed,
that they, they, they, they certainly had stuff that they'd like practiced.
And we do have these debates upcoming between Joe and Donald Trump.
That may be one of the only, uh,
set of events that could potentially even change the dynamic of the race.
Meaningfully.
I think that, you know, in America,
unfortunately,
so much of it is entertainment and people are taken in by
charisma sense of humor, attractiveness,
and a lot of the presidents from the past that maybe had, you know,
we're not appealing to look at or listen to, but who happened to be brilliant.
Uh, maybe some of those people would not be elected today. You know,
there are a lot of people who are incredible at their jobs who are really, uh,
not, uh, pleasant to talk to or, or, or look at. They're not funny,
but maybe they're just amazing at making the correct
choices or thoughtful, difficult choices. And if you look back,
I, I joke about this, but I do think it's true.
You tend to see that the slightly more entertaining or warmer candidate
often wins. I mean, when Al Gore lost,
I remember being pretty shocked because when you watch the debates,
you know, George Bush was terrible in those, in those debates,
but he did have a certain charm about him and the country was doing great at
that moment, the economy strong.
Beer with competition. I remember that.
And, and it was almost like the, the country had a Clinton fatigue,
a scandal fatigue,
and they weren't factoring in the fact that the country was operating in,
in, and, you know, for our country pretty well,
the economy was doing very well. It wasn't a moment to toss out the Democrats,
but a board country is seeking
entertainment and a friend. And, and, and,
and I think that that has happened many times in our,
in our history where we're attracted to that.
And I think you might say the same thing about Donald Trump,
where he's more of an aggressive insult comic, um,
and people didn't pay attention to the fact that he had ripped off a lot of
students that he didn't pay his bills, that he was, uh, you know,
awful to women. Uh, you know,
there were so many very clear signals to us that he was corrupt
and not empathetic and a dangerous person,
but people bought into his bravado,
his entertainment factor, and he had no record.
So it was easy for him to say,
Hillary Clinton is corrupt because he hadn't held any elective office.
He didn't have to come through on any of his promises.
I think if you look at what, what happened,
he really didn't accomplish any of the things that he was talking about. Yeah.
W what you're saying is spot on Judd,
and this is one of the great dynamics that I'm scratching my head about it to
some level with concern, um,
which is that it seems like politics and entertainment have, uh,
have merged and at least in some respects.
And then if you have some larger than life, uh,
figure that millions of Americans in the case of Donald Trump felt like they
knew from the apprentice and other things. And then like, he like overrode,
um, a lot of other, like the rest of the Republican field.
And then it was him against Hillary.
He seemed somehow more entertaining and appealing and like quote unquote,
authentic, uh, and the democratic field too. There was something that happened.
And I was the beneficiary of this. So it's not, not a knock, but like,
let's say you have folks like Steve Bullock,
governor of Montana who makes a late entrance into the race,
or Michael Bennett Senator from Colorado,
who like people didn't find particularly exciting or whatnot that, uh,
that they got, uh, ignored and blown off more or less. Um,
and then if you have like the magical Asian man who wants to give everyone money
and like, who came from the internet, then, like,
I became more of like a figure in part, because like, I was more interesting.
Um, now this is not something I'm,
I think is necessarily like a super positive in a
American like politics, you know,
like I happen to think boasty Bullock and Michael Bennett, um, uh,
deserved more attention than they got, um, from voters or from in, you know,
um, folks in, in, uh, the know, um,
and it's one reason why you have people suggesting completely seriously
that, you know,
the rock should run for president or like someone that we all know.
Kanye.
Tucker Carlson, like, you know, on like on the Republican side,
who is like a commentator entertainer,
but at this point that things have kind of merged where if you have like a very
prominent public persona, then that actually is like a massive,
um, value add in terms of your political currency.
Absolutely. And it's scary. I mean,
we don't quite understand the Kanye West motivations. You know,
there are some people who would read, uh,
something into it about him wanting to split the vote. Uh, uh,
and then other people who think like, no,
the whole thing is just a manic episode and there is no logic behind it
or, or, or vision. He's just having a meltdown.
But regardless they say in certain States, when they did some quick polling,
maybe already had 2% or 4%. And that's,
what's scary about the idea of unqualified people jumping
in because clearly our country has not been discerning enough
to say,
I don't think being on the apprentice is enough to run the
country. I don't,
I don't think having those bankruptcies and running hotels make sense for
some qualified.
And so we are scared when we hear Trump's kids are gonna run one day or Tucker
Carlson or, or, or, you know, or the rock where you, you think, Oh,
no, I want somebody who really understands how government works.
I want somebody who,
who has a vision that I agree with.
I don't want to just be somebody who's popular. No,
it's not impossible that a famous person can turn out to be,
uh, a wise thoughtful, good president it's. But man, it's, that's, uh,
the percentages of that are probably still pretty scary, pretty low.
And we see it with Donald Trump. Now,
his lack of experience means he doesn't really understand how to work
government. He doesn't know how to get masks made.
He doesn't know how to get enough test tubes so that you could do the testing
and he doesn't want to,
he literally doesn't even want to find out how to do it because he is lazy.
He clearly has educational issues. He doesn't think well. And so he says,
let the governors handle it because he can't manage a gigantic
bureaucracy. And we need people that know how to do that.
You know, what's tough. Judd is. And I, I generally agree with, uh,
with a lot of what you just said. Um,
just so many Americans have looked up and been like, man,
this stuff's not been working for us.
And even when you and I talked about like the good times of when Al Gore was
running in 2000 and you made the caveat, which was right, is like,
like relatively speaking things were, were good. Um, at that point,
even though now, yeah. To now,
but we also recognize that like, uh, that there's been a lot,
there've been a lot of people left behind even like the relatively good times,
bad times are showing just how exposed many American families are, where,
you know, like that, like, there's like, uh, uh,
just financial insecurity everywhere. And like, uh,
and many Americans have felt excluded from, uh,
even the gains that have been made. Uh,
and there are so many Americans that just look up and be like, man,
like even under the Democrats, like, you know, my factory was closing,
my main street stores were closing because the Amazon, like, they,
they look up and they're like, not sure, uh, in my opinion, that's what,
one of the things that fuels like our interest in these folks from
outside government, because like, like the, the,
because people have lost faith in a lot of things in our society. Um, but,
but like one of the things they've lost faith in is that if they get, uh,
like the other party into power in DC,
that things will make meaningfully change where like in their school or on their
street, or like, you know, these things now, all of that said,
I'm obviously very pro Biden have endorsed him.
I've been doing everything I can to help. Um,
and I get the sense from what you've just said,
that you are also pulling for a team, Joe,
that's the fall. I don't think that's like much of a stretch. Um,
so we'd love to hear like, uh, what you're seeing.
And also if there are particular races that you're, um,
like focused on outside of the big kahuna race between Joe and Donald Trump,
where the, there are some political candidates that have caught your eye. Um,
certainly on our side, there are, you know, um,
a number of candidates that I'm trying to help an elevate,
like at the local levels. Um, and was wondering if, if there were, uh,
people that you were working with on that side?
Well, I think that, um, you know, it's very important that, uh,
Democrats will win the Senate because
I think, you know, if you were to envision what the next four years would be,
if, if Joe Biden was the president,
we're going to be in the midst of the pandemic into next year,
maybe beyond into 22,
it also might be something that is around in some form chronically
where it's like the flu in the sense that we're getting shots every year.
And what if the shot only works 50% of the time? I mean, the flu shot,
we all get it. And some years we're like, Oh,
they didn't get the right one this year.
So we don't know how many years we're going to be dealing with this where it's
very serious. Hopefully there'll be some sort of, you know,
medicines that help us, even if we do get it where it's not as dangerous,
we don't know yet, but that could play out over years. Yes.
So we have to also assume that that the
country will be very impatient for solutions from the
next president economic solutions for the disaster.
That's clearly coming from all of this and also the,
the medical issues.
And if something really meaningful does not happen,
then Joe Biden will be a one-term president. I there's a chance.
He's a one term president anyway. Uh,
maybe another Democrat will run after four years.
And so without the Senate, um,
I don't think he'll be able to make large scale meaningful change
in the country and be able to fix a lot of what we've learned about how badly
our institutions work. I mean,
we're basically finding out on a daily basis that on almost any issue,
you could take it to the Supreme court.
It takes years and you don't actually get solutions. Uh,
you can't even find out if you're allowed to,
if the Congress has lets us subpoena people to speak to committees,
right? We're,
we're still not sure if they're allowed to force people to answer questions,
to be held accountable for their work for the country. Uh,
and you could kick the can down the street on almost anything
in the courts, right? So the justice system is, is, is a complete mess.
The courts are a complete mess.
And my concern is that
if things don't turn around and it goes right back to the Republicans in four
years, and what it will be is a smarter Donald Trump,
a less demented Donald Trump with the same
long-term vision. I mean, Donald Trump is not a very efficient person.
You don't know what we don't even know how much of these choices he makes are
his are just the people around him who are able to get ideas through
this strange man. You know, when I hear that, like,
they're not going to let they, they,
they try to not let students stay in the country.
If their college switches to zoom classes.
I don't think Donald Trump was in a room and thought that up, you know, that's.
That is the thing that many people are concerned about. Judd is like, uh,
imagine competent and malevolent, uh, you know, as opposed to yeah.
You know, you know, there's all these people, uh, that are truly dangerous,
that it could swing back to them very quickly.
If the country is still struggling in a few years and you know,
what the country will be struggling. And, and so what,
what kind of president who controls the Congress and the Senate do in terms of,
of healthcare in terms of, you know, larger changes.
Thank you for listening again. I hope you enjoyed this conversation. If you did,
please do subscribe to yang,
speaks and click on notifications so we can let you know,
every time we have a new episode.